Blog post on monitoring questdb in k8s (#1223)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2022-12-13-monitoring-questdb-in-k8s.md

---
title: Monitoring QuestDB in Kubernetes
author: Steve Sklar
author_title: QuestDB Team
author_url: https://github.com/sklarsa
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/sklarsa
description: How to monitor a QuestDB instance using Loki and Prometheus
keywords:
  - kubernetes
  - database
  - open source
  - tutorial
  - monitoring
  - observability
image: /img/blog/2022-12-13/banner.png
tags: [kubernetes, database, monitoring, tutorial, observability]
---

import Screenshot from "@theme/Screenshot"
import Banner from "@theme/Banner"

<Banner
  alt="A High-level diagram of the components used to monitor QuestDB."
  height={467}
  src="/img/blog/2022-12-13/banner.png"
  width={650}
>
  Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@chrisliverani">Chris Liverani</a> via{" "}
  <a href="https://unsplash.com">Unsplash</a>
</Banner>

One of our Cloud engineers, [Steve Sklar](https://github.com/sklarsa), shares
with us how to use some of the most popular tools in the Kubernetes ecosystem to
build monitoring infrastructure for your QuestDB instances.

<!-- truncate -->

## Monitoring QuestDB in Kubernetes

> As any experienced operator will tell you, monitoring and observability tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As any experienced DevOp architect will tell you, monitoring and observability tools
```
I don't know if this would work but I find "operator" too vague?

are critical for supporting production cloud services, as real-time analytics help detect anomalies and recover from disasters. Since container technologies are drastically changing the infrastructure world, new tools are constantly emerging to help solve the problem. Kubernetes and its ecosystem with a variety of solutions have addressed the need for infrastructure monitoring. The tools are easy to install, maintain, and use.

> Luckily, QuestDB is built with these concerns in mind. Creating your QuestDB instance and adopting containerized infrastructure provide a great way to orchestrate the applications. This tutorial will describe how to use today's most popular open source tooling

Reviewer: I think I said enough about Kubernetes but I have not addressed "why QuestDB works well with these tools".
Need some help here. What kind of QuestDB users should learn about this?
Anything I could think of feels like saying "QuestDB is not sufficient enough in monitoring and this is why we need Kubernetes".
